[Figure 1]

## ABNORMAL BRAIN DEVELOPMENT.’

By H. C. EYMAN, M. D., Medical Suj5erintendent, Massillon State Hosftital, Massillon, Ohio.

In these degenerate days, when every person who commits a crime, sets up as a defence that he is a degenerate, and transfers the responsibility for his vicious tendencies to his possibly innocent ancestors, it seems to me that a study of the conditions which tend to produce such results might be of interest. It is undoubtedly true that some persons inherit a finer moral nature than others, and if the laws of heredity were closely studied, we would probably also find that some of our brothers have inherited conditions which proved fertile soil for vice, and if environment be not in accord with our highest ideas of morality, how can we expect such to reach a plane where such abstract ideas as truth and justice prevail? We are prone to say they have

destroyed their will power by succumbing to vicious practices,

and therefore are primarily responsible. Let us see :-The will is simply a process of energizing; a desire or aversion sufficiently strong to produce action after deliberation. Now our youthful offender has a desire to do certain wrongs, his aversion to wickedness, implanted by upright ancestors in most of us, is entirely absent, therefore the will is to commit the wrong and he does so.

He is not destroying his will power, merely accentuating the vicious desires which soon become the controlling will. The will to do the wrong then is simply one of the manifestations of abnormality. The brain is developing along abnormal lines, and the mind, dependent upon environmental conditions for its development, is necessarily warped and full of ugly excrescences. The will, having no inhibition from implanted aversion to viciousness, becomes simply the expression of animal desires; but

‘Read at the Fifty-Seventh Annual Meeting of the American MedicoPsychological Association, Milwaukee, Wis., June i i, 1901.

[Figure 2]

there is no lack of will power, no diminution of volition. He has become simply a moral imbecile. It is possible that this degenerate offspring of a vile ancestry might be developed along lines of right conduct, and by precept and example be taught aversion to vice and thereby more nearly approach to normal brain development, and this in spite of his heredity. I believe that all mental growth comes from without; that at birth a child has no mind; that he inherits his brain and his potentialities, but that the acquirement of knowledge depends almost wholly upon his environment. Now, when I say that the child inherits potential qualities, I mean that these qualities may dominate him in spite of his environment, but that by proper persistent effort many now classed as moral imbeciles might have been reclaimed if they could have been placed in a proper atmosphere at the beginning of their existence. I have no doubt of the awful heritage of ancestral crime. Dr. E. A. Winship, editor and educator, gives an interesting comparison in a little book called JukesEdwards, in which the family of Jonathan Edwards is compared with that of the notorious Jukes family. Margaret Jukes went from her home in a retired village to one of the great centers, and entered upon a life of profligacy. In about one hundred and seventy years the family of that wicked ancestress had cost the communities in which they had lived $I,25o,ooo as criminals and paupers. Three hundred and ten of the descendants of Margaret Jukes had spent their days in almshouses or similar places; one hundred and fifty were victims of loathsome diseases, or had wrecked their health; sixty were professional thieves, and fifty had gone down to the lowest depths possible for women to go in life. Only twenty of her descendants had ever learned a trade; of these twenty, ten had learned their handicraft in prisons. Now, in Margaret Jukes’ case, the desire to do wrong prevailed over her aversion to evil, and hence this awful history; but suppose when this most unfortunate young woman first reached the great city, some kind Christian woman had taken care of her, and taught her to love the good and shun the evil, might not this gruesome history have been averted? Was not this the proper place to correct the abnormal brain development by guiding and directing the progenitress of this most miserable race? In impressive contrast with the degeneracy of the Jukes family, and in

[Figure 3]

### 1901] H. C. EYMAN 253

illustration of the power of goodness also to continue and be transmitted, Dr. Winship showed how, in about the same num-

ber of years as that through which the Jukes family history was traced, the descendants of one greatly good man, Jonathan Ed-

wards, included men and women who had made and left on their day and generation and on succeeding generations, their mark for Godliness and civilization and nobility of life. This Edwards family had two hundred and eighty-five college graduates to its credit, of whom sixty-five became professors in colleges and thirteen became college presidents, including institutions of such high rank as Princeton and Yale; thus carrying still further the torch lighted in the home and heart of their ancestor. Among the descendants of Jonathan Edwards were also found more than one hundred lawyers and thirty judges.

If a child inherits a trick of motion, a special physiognomy, or a tyrannical appetite, why not the weak cellular structure which predisposes to tuberculosis and to conditions which later may be called manifestations of insanity? Disease in the parent will produce idiocy in the child; arrest of cerebral development. Excess of the passions prevent mental organization; and neglected childhood even produces the equivalent of arrest of development; for, as in the case of the idiot, the arrest of the cerebral development is caused by want of alimentation and therefore malnutrition of the brain, so in the untaught child we get arrest of cerebral development caused by neglecting to furnish properly organized experiences of the right relation of human beings to each other, which gives us a corresponding moral idiot. Men do not become moral by intuition but by patient organization and training. Indeed, the whole process of education consists of the building up of cerebral cells. It has been said that there are four great subdivisions of the nervous system, each one of which presides over, co-ordinates and controls a separate set of functions: 1st, The ganglionic nervous centers, which connect the vital organs with each other and with the brain, bringing them into sympathetic action. 2nd, The spinal cord which presides chiefly over the movements of the limbs and body. 3rd, The photographic storehouses which register the sensations or impressions gathered by the senses. 4th, The gray matter of the cerebrum. Somewhere in this last division are located the

[Figure 4]

tissues of that which we call mind, and to this are all other portions of the human body subordinate. Here are located the ideational centers that enable us to reason, to think, to will, and probably upon the integrity of this part of the brain depends the moral nature. The tissues of the mind are last to develop, and, according to Maudsley, “instead of mind being a wondrous entity, the independent source of power and self-sufficient cause of causes, an honest observation proves incontestably that it is the most dependent of all natural forces, It is the highest development of force and to its existence all the lower natural forces are indispensibly prerequisite.” Thus you see how extremely important that the development of the brain be along normal lines. The mind cannot be the perfect controlling power it should be if some of the essential parts of the physical organization be wanting or abnormal. It has been claimed that the will does not reach the acme of its development until about the thirtieth year, and “is entirely dependent for its outward realization upon that mechanism of automatic action which is gradually organized in the subordinate centers-the cultivation of the senses are necessary antecedents to the due formation and operation of the will.” The natural conclusion would therefore be that the moral nature, which simply means the holding of the emotions and passions under the dominion of the will and judgment, is the last developed, and that in the abnormally developing mind, due to hereditary bondage, the moral nature must necessarily be somewhat atrophied. Criminal statistics seem to bear out this idea. Dr. Neison found that the percentage of crime was greatest at about the age of twenty, and that after that time it gradually decreased until at the age of sixty it was only one-fifth as great. It is probably true that from fifteen to twenty the emotions are more active proportionately than at a later age. The desire to commit criminal acts is stronger and the aversion to vice weaker. As yet the judgment is not fully developed, and the youthful offender has not yet learned to count the cost. Experience has not yet taught him that self-denial may later bring its reward. After twenty-five, social questions are more or less involved, and gradually become an efficient factor in regulating conduct, and tend to make the criminal adjust himself to social requirements.

[Figure 5]

Where the organization of the individual’s brain is structurally below the normal, and the development is further handicapped by malnutrition due to vicious environment, the hereditary factor is undoubtedly the determining one, and the offspring of such an individual would surely be a moral imbecile, In this case the development, physical, mental and moral would be limited by heredity. Of course, it may be possible, by absolutely changing the environment, and throwing around him an atmosphere of purity and righteous effort for several generations, and excluding the noxious influence of criminal associates, that eventually the development of the brain may approach more nearly to the normal, but in the individual moral imbecile such development would be impossible. We are apt to lose sight of the fact that the tendency of heredity is to produce and perpetuate an environment in harmony with such abnormal development, and the child having constantly before it the example of vice and debauchery more readily plunges into the vortex of crime. I am aware that certain well-known criminologists aver that environment is the ultimate controlling factor, and that even “hereditary conditions depend upon an environment within limits which necessitate the development of typal characteristics,” Grant that this may be true, the condition of the individual must still depend very largely upon his brain development. If, with more favorable environment, a stronger moral growth would obtain, certainly this growth would be preceded by a healthier activity and more nearly normal development of the brain. We inherit a brain, with the potential force for good or evil, but the acquirement of knowledge, coming wholly from without, neces-

sarily depends largely upon our environment. The child that can see acquires knowledge entirely inaccessible to the blind

child. So also the child reared in moral surroundings acquires a moral tone wholly inaccessible to the wharf rat. But compare the resultant development of the Jukes with the development of the Edwards. When Jonathan Edwards’ children were all young, all except one under twenty and one fieing only one year ord, he was compelled by force of circumstances to take up his

abo le upon the extreme frontier, at a village where there were only twelve white families and one hundred and fifty Indian families. What now of environment? Here his children had ab-

[Figure 6]

solutely no advantages of school, and had it not been for the pure blood of saintly ancestors, in all probability they would have succumbed to the dragging chains of their environment, and have grown up in ignorance, if not in vice.

Here are the pictures of these two families-the environment of both being similar, both living on the frontier, The one had a Christian home, in which there was an inherited tendency to industry, frugality, truthfulness and honesty. The other an inherited shiftlessness, dishonesty and criminality. The one inherited abundant capacity and character, every child for generations having been educated from early childhood. The other “had no inherited capacity or training.” Their only chance lay in nursing every germ of hope by the means of industry and education, through the discipline of the shop, the training of the schools, and the inspiration of the church.

Did they take advantage of these? We are told that not one of the twelve hundred secured even a moderate education and only twenty of these ever had a trade, and ten of these learned it in state prison. Why? Was it not because the abnormal brain development which was a part of their heritage made it impossible for them to make the effort? Is it possible that the history of the twelve hundred could have been so uniform, so entirely similar if they had inherited brains and brain development like the descendants of Jonathan Edwards? I believe it possible to bring a bad heritage to decent living if the marriages be with persons of pure blood, uncontaminated with vice or vicious ancestry; but unfortunately these people usually marry in their own sphere, and thus perpetuate and accentuate their vicious tendencies. “It is pre-eminently true that a mighty intellectual and moral force does plow the channel of its thought and character through many generations.”

I presume there are few of us here who could not truthfully say “all that I have, all that I am, I owe to my mother.”

We will not hold that moral perversion is a pathological condition in the sense of disease, but it is surely an abnormal state manifesting symptoms which seem closely allied to the manifestations of real disease. We are not prepared to accept the doctrine that all criminals are degenerates, neither do we believe that all degenerates are criminals, anarchists or lunatics. The author,

[Figure 7]

the artist, aye, even the eloquent minister of Christ’s Gospel sometimes belong to this abnormal class. They are closely related to the anthropological family which furnishes the world its Prenliergasts, its Guiteaus and its Marquis De Sades,

Dryden you know tells us, “Great wit to madness nearly is allied, And thin partitions do their bounds divide.”

While we believe this to be true in some instances, yet we do not wish to be understood as accepting en masse the pessimistic doctrines of Lombroso or Nordeau, who evidently enjoy the thought that the world is degenerating from a high plane, rather than the optimistic though rational view that through evolution we are advancing upwards from a lower plane. An American dude, who when asked concerning his ancestry replied, “Oh I’m the first of me line you know, my father was in trade.” It was probably this same individual who asked the elder Dumas if he was not an octoroon-He answered, “Yes” “and your father ‘ ? “He was a quadroon,” and your grandfather”? “A mulatto” “and his father”? “A negro.” “And may I inquire who his father was “? “He, sir, of course was an ape, my ancestry begins where yours ends.” It is the degenerate offspring of oftentimes honest and respected parentage who is the shining star of the theory of race degeneracy;

“Evolution ever climbing after some ideal good, And Reversion ever dragging Evolution in the mud.”

We believe that the history of the world is one long positive verification of the doctrine of evolution, the fundamental principle of which is the survival of the fittest. The weak have been ever pushed to the wall, and only the strong, the healthy, the brave have successfully battled with encroaching multitudes and permanently placed their banners high upon the bulwarks of the nations of this earth. We are frequently brought face to face with statistics which prove that insanity, hysteria, criminality and moral imbecility are on the increase, out of proportion to the increase in population. Accepting this as true, still we claim that in the universal application of the law, the results would still be the same. All conditions tending to degeneracy tend to sterility. I once had under my care at the same time, the grand-

[Figure 8]

mother, the mother and the grandson-members of the same family, and all afflicted with the manifestations of insanity. The

grandmother had been a woman of ordinary mental capacity, the mother less stable and with an early tendency to hysteria, the grandson an intellectual and moral imbecile, whose generative organs were undeveloped and who was entirely incapable of procreation. The last of a degenerating family. The apparent increase of the abnormal and defective classes in the United States may be partially accounted for by the constant pouring into this country of these classes. You will recollect that early in the settlement of this country our Puritan fathers were plagued with a class of people who had been arrested for various offenses in the mother country, and upon trial were found “not guilty if they left at once for New England.”

Abnormal brain development is abhorrent to the physiologist. The relations, however, existing between criminology and psychology is very intimate. So well has this fact been established that the proper study of the criminal classes has been conceded to the alienist. Crime itself exhibits such peculiar and unreasonable conditions that the study of the criminal at once becomes of great interest to the psychologist. In Belgium, the Government recognizing this obligation to the criminal classes, has appointed commissioners, alienists of known ability to examine all criminals confined in the public jails. Every day our newspapers teem with accounts of strange and unnatural crimes, many of them motiveless, and consequently unaccountable, except on the grounds of abnormal brain development or moral perversion. Now, if our moral pervert is but the legitimate outcome of a degenerating race, we should probably not treat him as a criminal or ordinary felon. There is a class of philosophers who believe that all crime is the result of abnormal or imperfect development, but who also believe that as the laws are made to protect the innocent from the effects of crime and not to protect the criminal, that all crime, whether committed by mentally unsound or by the merely abnormal, should require the punishment of the perpetrator. On the other hand we are taught by equally intelligent sociologists that defective and abnormal conditions absolve the perpetrator of crime from legal responsibility. We are satisfied that mental unsoundness in the criminal class is

[Figure 9]

1901] H. C. EYMAN 259

generally a mark of physical and mental degeneracy, and that

hereditary influences, with this class, are especially strong..

Natural, spiritual and civil laws all entail penalties for those who break them, and of these, natural law is the most remorseless. Given a drunken grandfather, a weakened and diseased father-we have almost certainly a defective criminal or insane grandson.

We do not pretend to say that one can inherit insanity, but we do say that the vulnerable cell structure is directly inherited from weakened cell structure, whether caused by disease or dissipation. Degenerate or defective man, from whatever cause his deficiencies arise, has less discernment, greater temptations and less will power to resist them, and consequently more often falls into the commission of crime, and in consequence is deprived of his liberty. These are the people who overcrowd our police courts, and are frequent boarders at the work houses. Would it not be better both for the community and the criminal himself, if he were placed in custody, and his degenerate condition operate as a bar to his release, than to have him committed to the work house for a thirty day period ten times a year? I do not believe that the perpetrators of any crime should go scot free, and as the average convict in many ways either physically, morally or mentally falls below the normal standard, I believe that the best interests of the community demand his incarceration and detention until his disposition to criminal acts be overcome or eradicated. Therefore if a brain be abnormally developed we may look for absence of sympathy or interest in the world or humanity, lack of knowledge and judgment, inattention, criminal tendencies, feebleness of aversion to crime, atrophy of the notion of duty and morality, all the direct result of environment

either hereditary or physical. We have attempted to portray

some differential details between normal and abnormal brain development, and we realize that the more complete the normal mental growth, the nearer we come to Him who gives us power to grow, develop and perfect our mentalities.

