[Figure 1]

525

MODE OF PREPARATION OF THE SPECIMENS AND METHOD OF PROCEDURE

RADIOGRAPHIC RESEARCHES ON THE

TOPOGRAPHICAL RELATIONS OF THE BRAIN, THE FRONTAL AND MAXILLARY SINUSES, AND THE VENOUS SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER TO THE WALLS OF THE SKULL.

For our anatomical preparations we used sections of the head through the middle line with the view of proportionately diminishing the number of bony surfaces, of which there would be too many if the entire thickness of the head had to be traversed by the cathodic rays. One must be careful to select young subjects in whom the cranial sutures are not yet ankylosed. Before making the section of the head in the vertical and antero-posterior directions the specimen was injected with formol introduced by the carotid artery. This arterial injection was repeated two or three times at intervals of one or two days with the object of hardening the brain without appreciably changing its shape or size. The soft parts covering the skull and face were carefully removed and the antero-posterior section of the specimen was not made until afterthe lapse of a period of three weeks. The cerebral hemisphere, hardened in sitzc, was then carefully removed from the skull, freed from its pia mater, and replaced in its former position in the skull. These manipulations cannot alter the mutual relations of the brain and the

BY DR. PAUL REGNIER,

PROFESSEUR AGR&Eacute;G&Eacute;, SURGEON TO THE H&Ocirc;PITAL LARIBOISI&Egrave;RE ;

AND

### DR. JULES GLOVER,

ANCIEN INTERNE DE LA CLINIQUE OTO-LARYNGOLOGIQUE DE L’H&Ocirc;PITAL LARIBOISI&Egrave;RE.

## (Translated for THE LANCET.)

skull provided that they are kept within the narrowest possible limits. On this account we abandoned the idea of

THE present paper is an account of a research undertaken by us in which radiographic methods were applied to the investigation of the anatomy of the skull and the face. The observations were made in the Radiographic Laboratory at the Ecole Pratique of the Faculty of Medicine of Paris. 14 radiographs, together with our memoir, were submitted to the Paris Academy of Medicine at the meeting held on August 10th, 1897. Reproductions of three of our radiographs will be found in the Jozcrnal des Praticiens of Sept. 4th, 1897, and also in La Radiog,,-ap7tie. The investigations led us to the following results :-

making casts of the brain, for in them the conformation of the part is more liable to become altered, even when it has been hardened by formol or some other dehydrating agent. The brain must be freed from the pia mater if we wish to have the convolutions visible on the photographic plate, for when it is covered by the meninges the representation of it is less sharp. Moreover, it is advantageous by a vertical section to get rid of the convolutions of the internal aspect of the cerebral hemisphere, if one wishes to avoid having on the plate any confusion between the convolutions of the internal aspect and those of the outer surface of the hemisphere. The injections of the venous sinuses were made with bronze powder held in suspension either in a solution of wax in alcohol or else in tallow. A still better result is obtained if the course of the sinuses is indicated on the specimen by means of small metallic points-pins, for example-which come out deep black on the plate. Our radiographs of the dried skull cf the adult and infant deserved particular attention, for in them the extent and the conformation of the bony cells were very plainly to be seen, both at the level of the mastoid process and at the level of the bony sinuses of the face. Our various radiographs were taken with Colardeau-Chabaud cylindrical focus tubes. The distance from the tubes to the sensitive plate was always 45 centimetres (18 inches), a dis. tance which enabled us to obtain sharp pictures. The length of the exposure varied according to the state of the vacuum of the tube, from a few minutes to 10 and 40 minutes.

1. Regarded in its surgical aspect the topography of the skull and brain may be studied by radiographic methods, allowance being made for the fact that the views which are obtained by the processes in question inevitably present some very slight distortions. By means of radiography it is possible to see the brain through the skull. More than that, an important guide-mark in the study of the topographical anatomy of the brain and skull is furnished by the circum

stance that in the photographic plate it appears to be possible to superpose the outline of the cranial sutures on the outline of the fissures which separate the cerebral convolutions from one another. By these methods the relations between the cerebral convolutions and the walls of the skull, so interesting from the point of view of surgical intervention, can be studied with almost no preliminary preparation which might have the effect of materially modifying the exact relations between the brain and the skull. Similarly we may point out that on the radiograph of the cerebral convolutions, viewed through their bony covering, the outlines and the form of the lateral ventricle of the cerebral hemisphere are very exactly traced.

INFERENCES AND APPLICATIONS OF OUR RESEARCHES TO THE METHODICAL STUDY OF THE SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE BRAIN AND SKULL.

The superficial situation of the venous sinuses of the dura mater, of the cells of the mastoid process, and of the frontal and maxillary sinuses, and their definite re]ations to the external surface of the skull. which give easy access to them in a host of surgical interventions, are sufficient to show, on the one hand, the ease with which it was possible to obtain the results at which we have arrived, and, on the other hand, the practical importance which these results seem to us to possess. If a certain number of radiographs of different anatomical specimens are taken, as they were by us, and if they are compared with one another, it is easy to appreciate all the anomalies and variations of the size and shape of the frontal and maxillary sinuses, and this comparison, being made with photographs, is much more exact than the method ordinarily followed in anatomical treatisesnamely, the comparison of drawings of a series of sections cutting the bones of the face in all directions. In many of our preparations the lateral (venous) sinus formed a part of the mastoid process, a fact whichwas recognised long ago but whichhad not been so clearly demonstrated without resorting to special methods of preparation. In some specimens it corresponded to the anterior part of the mastoid or even to its centre, or, finally, in general, to the posterior fourth of the process. Allowances have to be made for some distortions of the picture, and, this being done, when radiographs obtained from a child are compared with those obtained from an adult it will be seen that in the normal

- 2. The immediate relations existing between the venous sinuses of the dura mater and the skull, and in particular those existing between the lateral sinus and the skull, may be defined both in the child and in the adult. Injections of the venous sinuses of the dura mater made with liquids which ultimately become solid, and which hold metallic substances in suspension, as well as some other devices to the same end, have enabled us to see these sinuses very clearly through the bony wall. Our radiographs show the lateral sinus, as our researches were particularly directed to this important point of surgical anatomy.
- 3. We have also been able to study, especially in dried preparations, the extremely variable extent and form of the cavities and bony cells of the mastoid process, as well as of the maxillary, frontal, and sphenoidal sinuses, and of the ethmoidal cells.
- 4. It has been possible for us to recognise in the infant and in the adult the exact position with reference to the outside of the skull oocupied by the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the three successive levels of the base of the skull. We have easily obtained, in specimens covered with their soft parts, the opaque triangular outline of the base of implantation of the petrous portion on the squamous portion of the temporal bone, as well as the outline of the three successive levels of the base in their exact relation to th3 external wall of the skull.

[Figure 2]

526

state the lateral sinus is less closely connected with the mastoid process in the adult and that this important venous channel seems to lie at a progressively greater distance from the bony process in proportion as the age of the subject advances from infancy upwards. At the level of the mastoid process not only are the cells of the body and of the tip very clearly recognisable according as the bony tissues contain air or are dense in their texture, but one can also easily make out certain mastoid cells which often extend backwards and downwards into the diploe between the two tables of the occipital bone. One sees also cells of still greater interest from a surgical point of view which occupy a surface of considerable extent immediately above the external auditory meatus. Moreover, if the tip of the petrous bone be removed from the preparation by a section passing internal to the tympanic cavity it will be easy to see the antrum and the tympanic cavity. In some radiographs the petrous bone is, in fact, so transparent that the orifice of the internal auditory meatus can be seen. It is unnecessary to refer in detail to the anatomical and surgical interest attaching to these results, which we were the first to obtain by utilising the transparency of the petrous bone under radiographic examination. The question is one of special importance at the present time, when so much attention is being bestowed on the operative details of the combined trephining of the mastoid process and the tympanic cavity in complicated suppurative otitis media.

manipulations, the tube is fixed on a small and light stand made of ebonite, or even of wood, and the observer wears caoutchouc gloves to protect himself against shocks from the current. The tube can now be brought near to, or removed from, the patient’s head until the proper distance is found without causing the patient any inconvenience or danger. In the examination of the face all the cavities become visible at the same time.

# TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE KIDNEY: ITS ETIOLOGY, PATHOLOGY, AND SURGICAL TREATMENT. BY DAVID NEWMAN, M.D. GLASG.,

SURGEON TO THE ROYAL INFIRMARY, GLASGOW.

TUBERCULOUS lesions of the kidney present themselves to the surgeon in many phases. In some instances when first seen by him the disease is so advanced that little can be attempted to stay its progress or to mitigate the suffering of the patient, while in other cases the malady is still limited in extent and much may be done by early surgical intervention. Even a few years ago renal tuberculosis was looked upon as almost a certainly fatal malady, but now that new and more exact methods can be employed in detecting the disease in the early stage the surgeon is not uncommonly placed in a position to advise and to carry out operative measures with considerable hope of success.

With reference to the views of the cerebral convolutions obtained through the bones of the skull it may be said that a minimum distortion of the image can be reckoned on when care is taken to have the incidence of the cathodic rays exactly vertical to the anatomical preparation and consequently to the sensitive plate ; in the next place the tube ought to be at a sufficient distance (50 centimetres-i.e., 20 inches-as we have said) in order that the cone of emergent rays may present its minimum of divergence. With plates taken with these precautions (and with such plates only) the topography of the brain and skull in their various aspects can be studied in the adult and with still more facility in the child.

Various attempts have been made to classify diseases of the kidney into " surgical" and " medical," but it must be admitted that any such grouping is not only arbitrary and unscientific but productive of much misunderstanding and harm. An endeavour to follow such a classification has been attempted by M. Du Pasquier and M. Brissand, who adopt even now the nomenclature in use prior to the development of renal surgery. The old term "surgical kidney"was given to all secondary purulent lesions of the organ resulting from primary septic foci in the lower urinary passagesthat is to say, the word "surgical"was employed to denote that the renal lesion was secondary to a malady requiring the surgeon’s aid. It pointedto the etiology of the renal lesion rather than to the circumstances of how the disease required to be treated. In illustration of this it maybe observed that the French writers just referred to designate as "medical" those cases of tuberculous nephritis in which the virus has been carried to the kidney by the blood, whereas those in which infective material has extended upwards from the lower urinary tract they regard as "surgical." This classification is imperfect and unsatisfactory from all points of view. Indeed, the very cases which are included under their classification as being

Notwithstanding the undeniable value of the simple method by the insertion of pins through the walls of the skull into the cerebral convolutions practised long ago by Gratiolet and Broca, who were the first to study the topography of the brain and skull, it is none the less true that it would be extremely interesting to resume these complicated investigations by the aid of the wonderful method which, as we now recognise, enables us to obtain a permanent and detailed representation of the brain, irregular in form as it is, even through the bony structures which contain it. We are convinced that our pioneer researches will be the prelude to others.

THE APPLICATION OF OUR RESEARCHES TO THE CLINICAL EXPLOrRATION OF THE BRAIN AND THE OSSEOUS CAVITIES OF THE FACE.

On examining a child’s head with the fluorescent screen it is sometimes possible to perceive a clear patch corresponding to the cavity of the lateral ventricle, especially when this cavity is dilated by more or less serous effusion in the case of sufferers from hydrocephalus or meningitis. Referring to the results obtained on the anatomical preparation by taking radiographs of the brain through the skull, a method which gives a detailed representation of this ventricular cavity, it is obvious that a radiograph taken in such a case from a living child will afford more exact information than a mere examination with the fluorescent screen would do. One of us, with M. R&eacute;my, using the fluorescent screen, has seen in the bead of a child suffering from meningitis a clear patch corresponding to the median portion of the brain. This patch exists normally in young infants, but its transparency is certainly more perceptible in the pathological state when the ventricle is dilated with fluid.

medical" are those most suited for surgical treatment. Take, for example, cases of caseous nephritis where the kidney has been invaded through the blood and the virus has given rise to a localised renal tuberculosis unassoci’ated with active disease in other organs. Those cases while included by the writers above referred to as "medical"are the very ones which give the most satisfactory results to the surgeon.

"

To have an intelligent view of the present position of surgery to tuberculous disease of the kidney it is necessary to study very carefully the various modes of infection and the different phases of the morbid process. From a clinical standpoint tuberculous disease may be said to manifest itself in three distinct forms-namely, (1) acute miliary tuberculosis ; (2) local tuberculosis or renal phthisis ; and (3) chronic tuberculous or caseous nephritis. All these varieties are due to the presence of tubercle bacilli and to an infective process resulting therefrom, but the channels through which the virus reaches the kidney and the methods by which local infection takes place vary considerably.

In conclusion, we will say that it is easy by mere examination with the fluorescent screen to verify the transparency and the condition as to emptiness of the frontal and maxillary sinuses, and perhaps even of the mastoid cells, with much more exactness than by making use of the ordinary electric light. Instead of employing a powerful light introduced into the mouth for the illumination of the maxillary simises, or applied to the upper and inner margin of the orbit for the illumination of the frontal sinuses, we recommend having recourse to cylindrical focus tubes. With this object, and in order to simplify the

The etiology of tuberculous lesions of the kidney has been carefully worked out and the different avenues of infection have been ascertained. Two conditions are necessary to the establishment of tuberculous disease in the kidney-the presence of a suitable nidus there and the conveyance of specific organisms to the part. Probably on account of its abundant blood-supply the healthy kidney tissue, although more vulnerable than other parts of the urinary tract, has a

